# The Challenge

Today's Internet is primarily a communication vehicle; it is not yet
ready to build a planet-scale infrastructure that can support the
next generation of digital experiences.

The challenge we face is that the current Internet infrastructure
lacks functionalities to support the demands of an immersive
experience world, where interaction at a planetary scale is required.
We must find ways to evolve the Internet to meet the needs of this
landscape to be able to unlock the transformative potential of
technologies directly affecting the earth and everyone living on
earth, namely in the fields on culture, working, acting and thinking.
This requires a commitment to innovation, collaboration,
responsibility, and continuous improvement.

# Our Mission

Our mission at the Open Grid Alliance (OGA) is to rise to this
challenge architecting and implementing solutions by constructing a
comprehensive grid and utility that integrates administrative and
technological domains, to improve quality of life.

To achieve this mission, we must devise new approaches for planning,
designing and operating systems with high degrees of autonomy and
intelligence.  We must assess all these technological change vectors
and harmonize them to build this grid and utility, which we call the
*Open Grid*.

# Our Vision

Our vision is to empower individuals and organizations around the
world to achieve their full potential by providing innovative and
personalized solutions that harness the power of artificial
intelligence and other emerging technologies.  As the world's most
openly developed and widely shared foundation for digital
transformation, we strive to democratize access to advanced
technologies and enable everyone to participate in the creation of a
smarter, more connected, and more equitable world.

# Our Strategy

The *Open Grid* enables and targets hyper-composed applications -
dynamically composed applications with the ‘right type’ of resources
in the ‘right amount’, in the ‘right place’, and at the ‘right time’,
with intelligent optimization across all four dimensions at all
times. Applications developed edge-native do use composition and the
Grid extends this to hyper-composition.

XXX Das muss entweder raus oder komplett umgeschrieben werden.

* Distributed, federated, parallel, circular, context: security,
  protect people, privacy, resilience, flexible 
* Fungible, organic
* Privacy + sovereignty 

* Context has time dimension!
* Monitoring, accounting, charging, billing -> context / purpose
  (e.g. charity vs. profit) 
* Context is a shifting window in time
* SLA decentralized
* What environmental / sustainable variables are part of the Grid
* Supply-chain constraints

# The Open Grid

The *Open Grid* will be a living entity, with a circulatory system
that stitches together all digital resources owned and managed by
different entities across many parts of the world, and with a nervous
system that facilitates collaboration between all of these "local
brains" that run and operate these connectivity systems. One focus is
on sharing resources and services.

As a utility, it provides ubiquitous access to resources and services
on demand.  The focus here is to acquire and use the 'best' resources
or making use of other utilities.  In combination, it is a facility
that is being provided to applications to help them achieve their
goals while creating added value for resource owners and operators.

![High-level illustration of the Grid and its key features.](Grid_highlevel_illustration.png)

# Open Grid Alliance's Approach

The Open Grid Alliance assesses, monetizes, and evolves various
technologies including networking, web, compute, AI/ML and many more.
It defines key principles for the *Open Grid*, identifies technologies
that adhere to those principles, instantiates those technologies in
physical environments, and demonstrates their efficacy.  To accelerate
time-to-market and innovate new public/private business models, the
OGA also partners with cities and municipalities to create Innovation
Zones which act as crystallization points. The organization also
performs research, including the production of economic impact reports
and addressable market models that members and municipalities can use
to predict opportunities and outcomes.

The OGA guides development of reference architectures to facilitate
co-creation across multiple sectors contributing to the various
elements of the grid stack for collaborative go-to-market
offerings.  As the OGA proves out new technologies, it documents how
these technologies will impact cloud providers, developers, vendors,
communication service providers (CSPs), internet service providers
(ISPs), and end users.

# Introduction and Motivation

At its inception in Summer 2021, the Open Grid Alliance sparked a
groundswell of industry support with its *Open Grid Manifesto*
(https://bit.ly/Open-Grid-Manifesto).  By the end of the year, the
organization had attracted over 30 founding member companies and
became a 501(c)4 non-profit organization.  By September 2022, the
organization had formed its four key workstreams: the Grid Think Tank,
Grid Innovation Zone, Grid Industry Development and Grid Market
Development.  Soon thereafter Las Vegas, Nevada was designated as the
OGA’s first Innovation Zone, which published the market analysis paper
*Monetizing the Open Grid in Las Vegas*
(https://bit.ly/monetizing-the-grid), and demonstrated a real-time
video conferencing system over 5G CBRS using Open Grid technologies.

# Call for Actions

The Open Grid can only come about through deep collaboration and open
architectures.  While many Open Grid technologies are being
implemented today, it will be a decades-long journey of innovation
that will touch all levels of the stack.

For hardware providers, the Open Grid provides close proximity
distributed datacenter locations with last mile connectivity to reach
the end customer.  For service providers, the Open Grid enables your
service to be pre-integrated into an end to end solution for the
enterprise customer.  For data center operators, being part of the
Open Grid increases your ability to reach end customer sites and help
the end customer finish their digital transformation by moving the
last workloads offsite.  For last mile service providers, being part
of the Open Grid enhances your product offering and increases your
revenue stream with pre-integrated solutions offered through the Open
Grid.  The OGA invites you to join our efforts to make this vision of
evolving the Internet for a better future for everyone across the
globe!
